PEP 701: Incorporate feedback from the discussion thread (#2939)
python/peps: pep-0701.rst

    FSTRING_START - 'f"""'
    FSTRING_END - 'some words'

One way existing lexers can be adapted to emit these tokens is to incorporate a stack of "lexer modes"
or to use a stack of different lexers. This is because the lexer needs to switch from "regular Python
lexing" to "f-string lexing" when it encounters an f-string start token and as f-strings can be nested,
the context needs to be preserved until the f-string closes. Also, the "lexer mode" inside an f-string
expression part needs to behave as a "super-set" of the regular Python lexer (as it needs to be able to 
switch back to f-string lexing when it encounters the ``}`` terminator for the expression part as well
as handling f-string formatting and debug expressions). Of course, as mentioned before, is not possible to
provide a precise specification of how this should be done as it will depend on the specific implementation
and nature of the lexer to be changed.

> The specifics to how (or if) the ``tokenize`` module will emit this tokens or some others and what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specifics to how (or if) the ``tokenize`` module will emit these tokens or some others and what
```

> is included in the emitted tokens is left out of this document and must be decided later in a regular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is included in the emitted tokens are left out of this document and must be decided later in a regular
```

    FSTRING_START - 'f"""'
    FSTRING_END - 'some words'

One way existing lexers can be adapted to emit these tokens is to incorporate a stack of "lexer modes"
or to use a stack of different lexers. This is because the lexer needs to switch from "regular Python
lexing" to "f-string lexing" when it encounters an f-string start token and as f-strings can be nested,
the context needs to be preserved until the f-string closes. Also, the "lexer mode" inside an f-string
expression part needs to behave as a "super-set" of the regular Python lexer (as it needs to be able to 
switch back to f-string lexing when it encounters the ``}`` terminator for the expression part as well
as handling f-string formatting and debug expressions). Of course, as mentioned before, is not possible to
provide a precise specification of how this should be done as it will depend on the specific implementation
and nature of the lexer to be changed.

> The specifics to how (or if) the ``tokenize`` module will emit these tokens or some others and what

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The specifics of how (or if) the ``tokenize`` module will emit these tokens (or others) and what
```

Fix grammar and clarify phrasing

  expanded when the innermost string is evaluated.
* Comments, using the ``#`` character, are possible only in multi-line f-string literals,
  since comments are terminated by the end of the line (which makes closing a
  single-line f-string literal impossible). Comments in multi-line f-string literals require
  the closing ``{`` of the expression part to be present in a different line as the one the
  comment is in.

.. _considerations_of_quote_reuse:

Considerations regarding quote reuse
------------------------------------

One of the consequences of the grammar proposed here is that, as mentioned above,
f-string expressions can now contain strings delimited with the same kind of quote
that is used to delimit the external f-string literal. For example:

>     >>> f” something { my_dict[“key”] } something else “

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    >>> f" something { my_dict["key"] } something else "
```

In the `discussion thread of this document <https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-701-syntactic-formalization-of-f-strings>`_

> several concerns have been raised regarding this aspect and we want to collect them here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
several concerns have been raised regarding this aspect and we want to collect them here,
```

as these should be taken into consideration when accepting or rejecting this document.

Some of these objections include:

> * Many people find quite reuse withing the same string confusing and hard to read. This is because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Many people find quote reuse withing the same string confusing and hard to read. This is because
```

> * Many people find quite reuse withing the same string confusing and hard to read. This is because

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Many people find quote reuse within the same string confusing and hard to read. This is because
```

  allowing quote reuse will violate a current property of Python as it stands today: the fact that

>   strings are fully delimited by the same kind of quote, which by itself is a very simple rule. It
>   has been pointed out that one of the reasons quote reuse may be harder for humans to parse and
>   will lead to code that may be harder to read is that the quote character is the same on start and
>   end (as opposed to other delimiters). 

Reviewer: This sentence is quite long and hard to parse; here's a suggested rewording. I'm not quite sure what's meant by "same on start and end" here; you could consider rephrasing that as well.

```suggestion
  strings are fully delimited by the same kind of quote, which by itself is a very simple rule.
  One of the reasons quote reuse may be harder for humans to parse, leading to less readable
  code, is that the quote character is the same on start and
  end (as opposed to other delimiters). 
```

Author: > what's meant by "same on start and end"

That the delimiter is the same at the beginning at the end (as opposed to parentheses where "(" is different than ")".).

> * Some users have raised that quote reuse may break some lexer and syntax highlighting tools that rely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some users have raised concerns that quote reuse may break some lexer and syntax highlighting tools that rely
```

>   on simple mechanisms to detect strings and f-strings, such as regular expressions of simple delimiter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  on simple mechanisms to detect strings and f-strings, such as regular expressions or simple delimiter
```

>   matching tools. Introducing quote reuse in f-strings will either make these tools more tricky to keep
>   working or will break them altogether (as for instance regular expressions cannot parse arbitrary nested

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  matching tools. Introducing quote reuse in f-strings will either make it trickier to keep these tools
  working or will break the tools altogether (as, for instance, regular expressions cannot parse arbitrary nested
```

>   working or will break them altogether (as for instances regular expressions cannot parse arbitrary nested

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  working or will break them altogether (as for instance regular expressions cannot parse arbitrary nested
```

>   structures with delimiters). Some of the tools that may need some work to allow to syntax-highlight correctly
>   f-strings include the IDLE editor, which is included in the standard library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  structures with delimiters). The IDLE editor, included in the standard library, is an example of a
  tool which may need some work to correctly apply syntax highlighting to f-strings.
```

Here are some of the arguments in favour:

* Many languages that allow similar syntactic constructs (normally called "string interpolation") allow quote
  reuse and arbitrary nesting. Some of these languages include JavaScript, Ruby, C#, Bash, Swift and many others.

>   The fact that many languages allow quite reuse can be a compelling argument in favour of allowing it in Python. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The fact that many languages allow quote reuse can be a compelling argument in favour of allowing it in Python. This
```

>   The fact that many languages allow quite reuse can be a compelling argument in favour of allowing it in Python. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The fact that many languages allow quote reuse can be a compelling argument in favour of allowing it in Python. This
```

  is because it will make the language more familiar to users coming from other languages. 

> * As many other popular languages allow quite reuse in string interpolation constructs, this means that editors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* As many other popular languages allow quote reuse in string interpolation constructs, this means that editors
```

> * As many other popular languages allow quite reuse in string interpolation constructs, this means that editors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* As many other popular languages allow quote reuse in string interpolation constructs, this means that editors
```
This typo is quite common

  that support syntax highlighting for these languages will already have the necessary tools to support syntax
  highlighting for f-strings with quote reuse in Python. This means that although the files that handle syntax
  highlighting for Python will need to be updated to support this new feature, is not expected to be impossible
  or very hard to do.

> * One advatange of allowing quote reuse is that it composes cleanly with other syntax. Sometimes this is referred

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* One advantage of allowing quote reuse is that it composes cleanly with other syntax. Sometimes this is referred to
```

> * One advatange of allowing quote reuse is that it composes cleanly with other syntax. Sometimes this is referred

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* One advantage of allowing quote reuse is that it composes cleanly with other syntax. Sometimes this is referred to
```

>   as “referential transparency”. An example of this is that if we have ``f(x+1)``, assuming a is a brand new variable, it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  as "referential transparency". An example of this is that if we have ``f(x+1)``, assuming ``a`` is a brand new variable, it
```

>   should behave the same as ``a = x+1; f(a)z``. And vice versa.  So if we have::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  should behave the same as ``a = x+1; f(a)``. And vice versa.  So if we have::
```

    def py2c(source):
        prefix = source.removesuffix(".py")
        return f"{prefix}.c"

>   It should be expected that if we replace the variable prefix with its definition, the answer should be the same:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It should be expected that if we replace the variable ``prefix`` with its definition, the answer should be the same::
```

    def py2c(source):
        return f"{source.removesuffix(".py")}.c"

> * Limiting quote reuse will raise considerable the complexity of the implementation of the proposed changes. This is because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Limiting quote reuse will considerably increase the complexity of the implementation of the proposed changes. This is because
```

> * Limiting quote reuse will raise considerable the complexity of the implementation of the proposed changes. This is because

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Limiting quote reuse will raise considerably the complexity of the implementation of the proposed changes. This is because
```

>   that will force the parser to have the context that is parsing an expression part of an f-string with a given quote in order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  it will force the parser to have the context that is parsing an expression part of an f-string with a given quote in order
```

>   to know if it need to reject an expression that reuses the quite. Carrying this context around is not trivial in parsers that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to know if it needs to reject an expression that reuses the quote. Carrying this context around is not trivial in parsers that
```

>   to know if it need to reject an expression that reuses the quite. Carrying this context around is not trivial in parsers that

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  to know if it needs to reject an expression that reuses the quote. Carrying this context around is not trivial in parsers that
```
The whole sentence is a bit long and complex, so it might be clearer to rewrite it.

  can backtrack arbitrarily (such as the PEG parser). The issue becomes even more complex if we consider that f-strings can be
  arbitrarily nested and therefore several quote types may need to be rejected.

To gather feedback from the community `a poll <https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-701-syntactic-formalization-of-f-strings/22046/24>`_

> has been made to get a sense of how the community feels about this aspect of the PEP. The authors of this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has been initiated to get a sense of how the community feels about this aspect of the PEP.
```

> has been made to get a sense of how the community feels about this aspect of the PEP. The authors of this

Reviewer 3: Incomplete sentence

  expanded when the innermost string is evaluated.
* Comments, using the ``#`` character, are possible only in multi-line f-string literals,
  since comments are terminated by the end of the line (which makes closing a
  single-line f-string literal impossible). Comments in multi-line f-string literals require
  the closing ``{`` of the expression part to be present in a different line as the one the
  comment is in.

> .. _considerations_of_quote_reuse:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _701-considerations-of-quote-reuse:
```

* Namespace ref target label to avoid collisions between PEPs
* Use conventional `-` instead of `_`

Considerations regarding quote reuse
------------------------------------

One of the consequences of the grammar proposed here is that, as mentioned above,
f-string expressions can now contain strings delimited with the same kind of quote
that is used to delimit the external f-string literal. For example:

    >>> f" something { my_dict["key"] } something else "

> In the `discussion thread of this document <https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-701-syntactic-formalization-of-f-strings>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `discussion thread for this PEP <https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-701-syntactic-formalization-of-f-strings/22046>`_,
```

* Fix grammar
* Use more standard nomenclature
* Include thread ID in URL to be more reliable
* Add missing comma

several concerns have been raised regarding this aspect and we want to collect them here,

> as these should be taken into consideration when accepting or rejecting this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as these should be taken into consideration when accepting or rejecting this PEP.
```

More specific/conventional

Some of these objections include:

* Many people find quote reuse withing the same string confusing and hard to read. This is because
  allowing quote reuse will violate a current property of Python as it stands today: the fact that

>   strings are fully delimited by the same kind of quote, which by itself is a very simple rule.

Author: ```suggestion
  strings are fully delimited by two consecutive pairs of the same kind of quote, which by itself is a very simple rule.
```

  One of the reasons quote reuse may be harder for humans to parse, leading to less readable

>   code, is that the quote character is the same on start and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  code, is that the quote character is the same for both start and
```

Clarify grammar

  end (as opposed to other delimiters). 

* Some users have raised that quote reuse may break some lexer and syntax highlighting tools that rely
  on simple mechanisms to detect strings and f-strings, such as regular expressions of simple delimiter
  matching tools. Introducing quote reuse in f-strings will either make these tools more tricky to keep
  working or will break them altogether (as for instance regular expressions cannot parse arbitrary nested
  structures with delimiters). Some of the tools that may need some work to allow to syntax-highlight correctly
  f-strings include the IDLE editor, which is included in the standard library.

Here are some of the arguments in favour:

* Many languages that allow similar syntactic constructs (normally called "string interpolation") allow quote

>   reuse and arbitrary nesting. Some of these languages include JavaScript, Ruby, C#, Bash, Swift and many others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  reuse and arbitrary nesting. These languages include JavaScript, Ruby, C#, Bash, Swift and many others.
```

  as "referential transparency". An example of this is that if we have ``f(x+1)``, assuming ``a`` is a brand new variable, it
  should behave the same as ``a = x+1; f(a)``. And vice versa.  So if we have::

    def py2c(source):
        prefix = source.removesuffix(".py")
        return f"{prefix}.c"

  It should be expected that if we replace the variable ``prefix`` with its definition, the answer should be the same::

    def py2c(source):
        return f"{source.removesuffix(".py")}.c"

* Limiting quote reuse will considerably increase the complexity of the implementation of the proposed changes. This is because
  it will force the parser to have the context that is parsing an expression part of an f-string with a given quote in order
  to know if it needs to reject an expression that reuses the quote. Carrying this context around is not trivial in parsers that
  can backtrack arbitrarily (such as the PEG parser). The issue becomes even more complex if we consider that f-strings can be
  arbitrarily nested and therefore several quote types may need to be rejected.

> To gather feedback from the community `a poll <https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-701-syntactic-formalization-of-f-strings/22046/24>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To gather feedback from the community,
 `a poll <https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-701-syntactic-formalization-of-f-strings/22046/24>`__
```

Add needed comma (and anonymize hyperlink reference)

  as "referential transparency". An example of this is that if we have ``f(x+1)``, assuming ``a`` is a brand new variable, it
  should behave the same as ``a = x+1; f(a)``. And vice versa.  So if we have::

    def py2c(source):
        prefix = source.removesuffix(".py")
        return f"{prefix}.c"

  It should be expected that if we replace the variable ``prefix`` with its definition, the answer should be the same::

    def py2c(source):
        return f"{source.removesuffix(".py")}.c"

* Limiting quote reuse will considerably increase the complexity of the implementation of the proposed changes. This is because
  it will force the parser to have the context that is parsing an expression part of an f-string with a given quote in order
  to know if it needs to reject an expression that reuses the quote. Carrying this context around is not trivial in parsers that
  can backtrack arbitrarily (such as the PEG parser). The issue becomes even more complex if we consider that f-strings can be
  arbitrarily nested and therefore several quote types may need to be rejected.

> To gather feedback from the community,
>  `a poll <https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-701-syntactic-formalization-of-f-strings/22046/24>`__
> has been initiated to get a sense of how the community feels about this aspect of the PEP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  To gather feedback from the community,
  `a poll <https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-701-syntactic-formalization-of-f-strings/22046/24>`__
  has been initiated to get a sense of how the community feels about this aspect of the PEP.
```

Seems like the indent got messed up somehow here as a result of my suggestion and results in the build failing; this should fix it.

Rejected Ideas
==============

#. Although we think the readability arguments that have been raised against
   allowing quote reuse in f-string expressions are valid and very important,
   we have decided to propose not rejecting quote reuse in f-strings at the parser
   level. The reason is that one of the cornerstones of this PEP is to reduce the

>    complexity and maintainance of parsing f-strings in CPython and this will not

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   complexity and maintenance of parsing f-strings in CPython and this will not
```

   only work against that goal, but it may even make the implementation even more
   complex than the current one. We believe that forbidding quote reuse should be
   done in linters and code style tools and not in the parser, the same way other

>    confusing or hard to read constructs in the language are handled today.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   confusing or hard-to-read constructs in the language are handled today.
```
